beginning of chapter two

Deanna dropped me off around noon. My mom was out and had sent me a text. Running club. Then lunch with the girls. Back around 2.
It was Sunday and I had chores to do. We had a living room, a small dining room, a kitchen, two bedrooms and a shared bathroom. I was supposed to keep my room tidy, change my sheets once a week, vacuum, dust, clean the bathroom, and I was on dish duty on the weekends. My mom did weekday dishes, most of the cooking, and the laundry. Well, and her own room, I guessed.
I got to work, then showered and washed my hair. It had a party smell to it, so it was in need of washing. After the shower, I looked at myself in the mirror to take care of my hair. I applied leave-in conditioner to my rather unruly curls, then scrunched in some product to help define the curls. I made a little effort to make the bob look purposefully messy instead of just messy, but it was only a little.
When I was a kid, my mom, who also had blond hair, but of the straight and fine variety, was always trying to smooth my hair out to make it look tidy, and since she washed her hair every day, she thought I should, too. I finally got tired of it and took matters into my own hands when I was twelve. I looked up what to do with curly hair, opted for a messy bob, and it was what I rocked to this day, for better or worse. My mom wasn’t fond of how it looked like I’d just gotten out of bed all the time, but it was easy and that was what I needed in a hairstyle.

before end of ch 8
After negotiating that, I went and sat at the desk, feeling excited about finding an art store and ignoring the other reason I was there. I found a small independent shop in Aurora, which wasn’t too far. I just hoped they’d have something that wasn’t out of my mom’s price range. However, I did have some money saved up that I’d be willing to spend on getting set up. Watching all the arty TikToks had me wanting to try a few things.
I clicked around a bit, looking at what sorts of pencils I should get and stuff, but the store closed at five on Sundays and we’d have to leave by four to have time to look around. I reluctantly navigated to my inbox. Mom had forwarded the email, but I’d never looked at it. I didn’t really look at email at all usually, so it had been easy to avoid.
I taped my fingers on the laptop case for a while before finally clicking on the email with the subject line Fw: Reaching out about Jenica.
Even the subject line annoyed me. My full name was Jenica Estes Nichols. The last name was easy enough, but I had good ol’ Dad to thank for the rest of that name. Dad had wanted a J name to go with his and he chose Jenica, which meant God is gracious. This was both annoying for an atheist like me and often tripped teachers up on the first day of school, meaning I’d have to raise my hand and say Jen in front of the whole class. It was embarrassing. Estes was because of Estes Park in the Rocky Mountain National Park.
My dad had wanted to live in Colorado because of the mountains. He had dreams of hiking in the mountains, bagging fourteeners. He and my mom had married right after high school and moved to Colorado. He’d been disappointed to settle in Prairie View, which was a good drive away from the mountains, but Mom had gotten a job at the airport and it was where they could afford to live in striking distance of the airport. On her days off, they’d drive to the mountains and hike, which more or less worked until Mom got pregnant with me. Or more accurately, until Mom was very, very pregnant with me and couldn’t hike anymore. Dad, who’d not gotten a job, started going more and more by himself, camping overnight on longer and longer trips. When I was a few months old, Mom gave him an ultimatum. Either he found a job and stayed home at least twenty nights a month or she was divorcing him. He chose the mountains.
This was the first either of us had heard from him since, and yet my name was all about him from beginning to end. It was gross.

mid ch 11
Prairie View was a small town. Nothing was too far, as long as you stayed in town. If you actually wanted to go someplace that wasn’t one of the restaurants, gas stations, or hotels along the interstate, school, a friend’s house, or the small collection of places along Main Street, then things were different. Then you were looking at some distance.
There was a city park near the elementary school. I rode over and around the path that circled the park, considering where to stop. It was ten thirty on a warm spring Saturday morning, so there were plenty of kids playing on the playground that took up one end of the triple block that made up the park. Parents sat on benches with to-go cups of coffee or chased after their children. The middle part of the park was mostly grass with a few trees along one side. At the opposite end from the playground, there were a few of the large red rocks that Colorado is known for. We were in the middle of prairie here, so the red rocks were not from here. They’d been brought in when the town was founded from the other side of Denver. Still, they were cool. A few kids were scrambling around on them.
I stopped at a bench on the red rocks end of the park and got out my sketchbook. Then I got out my phone and snapped a picture which I sent to my dad. I hadn’t even put my phone away yet when I got a picture back of green trees with snow around them. The snow is starting to melt. He added a sad face emoji.
I ran my thumb along the side of the phone case for a minute, staring off into space. Then I quickly typed. *Sorry, but I’m enjoying the warm weather.*
Then I put my phone away before I could see if he was going to answer.
I was sketching the rock closest to me, rising up out of the sand when someone sat down next to me. I was only vaguely aware that there was a person there until she spoke.
