Author: Thea Astley
Work: The Well Dressed Explorer
Year: 1962
Choice: beginning of chapter one, past first two paragraphs
Tags: ToReview
Language: en
Comment: !! draft analysis to review !!

###

###

### +dlg
"It's your mother," she said coolly when her face resumed its shape. "She's run the window up. I bet she wants you, George."
Conscience sat up in the dust. Scaler's book lay under a mound of paperbacks. George's flickering timorous glance collided at this point with his mother's muscular voice plunging right through the rain and wind layers. "George-" (dogmatic) "-eeee" (rising querulous). Again. And again. The girl made pantomime gestures with a beauty of their own. They semaphored through glass to corseted anger at the kitchen door.
"You'd better go," she advised the boy. "She looks pretty mad."
       
"You, too."
"Not me. They weren't calling me. Besides, I want to catch up on my reading, haha."
George squirmed pleasurably and unlocked the door with also a finger-to-lip warning from fat curly locks who rolled her bulging dapple eyes.
"You be careful," he. said, and a year's specific rhapsodies pumped along his thin body. Outside the closed door he waited a moment under the overhang of the shed roof. Beyond the Hotel Pacifique a river steamer and a banana barge swung against the wharves; and beyond that, the training wall, a black glistening scab, curled across the river. In a treacherous tumult of aquamarine and pearl, river mouth emptied storm waters beyond the point. Sallow dunes. Dun cliffs. Smeared shapes of windy trees, piccabean and cedar rambling down from the Terranora forests.
The boy's ape toes that could shy a pebble for forty singing feet squelched through grass slush, dragging the mud lusciously between to rise in eight tawny joys. Mostly he stamped his foot deliberately along the narrow path, with his head down to watch, dragging reluctantly in the rain, sensing his shirt nailed to his body by hundreds of droplets. Irrelevantly his mind said "One more day," and then, happy disciple, he shouted the same words aloud, his streaming face grinning awkwardly as his mother flung open the back door.
"You're more than stupid, George! Change your clothes! And what on earth are you and Susan doing there all this time? Why didn't she come? We're going to have tea before your aunt goes."
Face was so like face. Puberty had not yet defined the boy, so that it would have been ridiculously easy to disguise one as the other if only the frizzy hair both sprouted might be lengthened or cropped; for the same blue eyes, in each case prominent and dispassionate, the same girlish mouth parted into an illusion of smile by the same large teeth, shouted their relationship.
"I'll get her," he said. Doom smirked like Scaler Wayne. A nervous tic. Perceptive Mrs Brewster, with nothing further to add, rushed between rain streamers, a fanatical disciplinarian, while George, biting his plump lip, sidled past her Torquemada eye and trailed wetly to his room down the hall.
Faith without good works is dead, said Grandpa Brewster's departed voice in thick felt tones above the redly varnished furniture, and nudged a whole chorus of echoing texts into utterance while George stripped off his shirt. He delighted in watching himself in the mirror, practising a variety of smiles and sincere looks he kept for certain teachers. Now he used the "no homework done but it was certainly not my fault, sir" gaze of unwavering gravity, genuineness leaping out from the eyes like two trained boxers. If the words did not convince at once, he made certain that his eyes felled his questioner at one truthful glance. There was another pimple starting near his nose. He attended to it absent-mindedly, observing rather his mouth as he practised the "Oh sir that was a boomer" smile he reserved for the abstruse witticisms of the Latin master.  ("Must  you do Latin, Brewster?") He would need that, he reflected, pretty often before the next summer term collapsed in a chaos of prose and scansion and unseen translation. Making his eyes sparkle more, he did it again. They simply shone with youthful alertness and appreciation. He was ravished by his own boyish enthusiasm. "Oh, sir," he breathed aloud, "oh, sir," admiringly, "that  was  a boomer!" Faith and good works, but especially faith, he signalled back to Grandpa Brewster. I have enormous faith.
To test him, the back door slammed on his thoughts and he heard, with a stopping of the heart, his mother propel Susan into a silence of accusing aunts and mothers, of rain-witnesses, of discovered unlawful property, of very innocence that shouted vehemently from his pale round fourteen-year-old face with its frightened eyes. These rolled  at the horror of it. He pulled on a clean shirt, brushed his hair and prayed briefly.
