The Well Dressed Explorer

Thea Astley

1962

ch 1 beginning

the weight  of her on his shoulders was almost too much for him.
        They circled the room, the boy on all fours, and he was on the point of collapsing to his elbows with the hiccuping laughter and the pain: the pain as she drove her heels in and said "Giddap, jumbo!"; and the laughter as he turned his pale straining face to one side, to glimpse her leaning smile. "Giddap, jumbo!" Abruptly the scream in his tendons dissolved in a supersonic agony and there he was, sprawling on his face while she lurched forward to topple over him onto the dusty playroom floor. A glimpse of navy knickers and plump thighs. Jumbo. Disentangled, they rolled on their backs, coughing and spluttering out the last of the tomfoolery and the images of their burlesque into the breathing-space of an armistice.
        Wet afternoon. Muddy light at full tide hid scrawls of dirt charitably passing off vagueness as cosiness, here under a rain-gabbling roof, here behind window slashed and slashed by the wet flat leaves. The girl jumped up and began slapping and beating the back of her skirt, then went to lounge against the window, her elbows set on the sill as she picked with stubby nails at the flaked paint that blistered in a miniature child-sketched sea of ochre waves. The observed heart-shaped leaves were swashing and clinging and lingering against iron and glass. She breathed a rough circle of mist onto the pane and drew a face in it, rubbed it out with her red palm and began again.
       
        Behind her, still stretched out along the knotty pine boards, the boy sleepily reviewed his fourteen years. All about him they hummed like tops, they were stacked up in rusting piles along the work bench, in boxes of bent rails, in marbles scuttled into corners, in carved initials up the length of a door-jamb, in the old comic piles, the book, strangely persuasive, smuggled in from Scaler Wayne. ("Hey, Brewster! Take a geezer at this! Yum-yum, eh!" "Gee, Scaler, can I take it home for a bit?" "Two bob to you, son." And the mouth slit-grinned, meaning it, and George felt the coins should have gone in there instead of into the stringy, kibed hand.) The spatial texture of four thousand odd days lost its silky quality. A rain puddle formed in his mind. Plop plop plop. The guttering dripped with memories. Guilty pink set sunwise on his amiable forehead remembering his cousin's crushing weight and the pleasure of it, the ache in the neck. He rolled on his side to look at her—unlovely, fat and vital, fringed, short-pleated, shod in strap-buttoned patent, sailor- (no ship named) bloused.
        As he watched she poked her tongue out as far as it would go and, wrinkling her nose, became so hideous that the boy giggled.
        "It's your mother," she said coolly when her face resumed its shape. "She's run the window up. I bet she wants you, George."
        Conscience sat up in the dust. Scaler's book lay under a mound of paperbacks. George's flickering timorous glance collided at this point with his mother's muscular voice plunging right through the rain and wind layers. "George-" (dogmatic) "-eeee" (rising querulous). Again. And again. The girl made pantomime gestures with a beauty of their own. They semaphored through glass to corseted anger at the kitchen door.
        "You'd better go," she advised the boy. "She looks pretty mad."
       
        "You, too."
        "Not me. They weren't calling me. Besides, I want to catch up on my reading, haha."
        George squirmed pleasurably and unlocked the door with also a finger-to-lip warning from fat curly locks who rolled her bulging dapple eyes.
        "You be careful," he. said, and a year's specific rhapsodies pumped along his thin body. Outside the closed door he waited a moment under the overhang of the shed roof. Beyond the Hotel Pacifique a river steamer and a banana barge swung against the wharves; and beyond that, the training wall, a black glistening scab, curled across the river. In a treacherous tumult of aquamarine and pearl, river mouth emptied storm waters beyond the point. Sallow dunes. Dun cliffs. Smeared shapes of windy trees, piccabean and cedar rambling down from the Terranora forests.
        The boy's ape toes that could shy a pebble for forty singing feet squelched through grass slush, dragging the mud lusciously between to rise in eight tawny joys. Mostly he stamped his foot deliberately along the narrow path, with his head down to watch, dragging reluctantly in the rain, sensing his shirt nailed to his body by hundreds of droplets. Irrelevantly his mind said "One more day," and then, happy disciple, he shouted the same words aloud, his streaming face grinning awkwardly as his mother flung open the back door.
        "You're more than stupid, George! Change your clothes! And what on earth are you and Susan doing there all this time? Why didn't she come? We're going to have tea before your aunt goes."
        Face was so like face. Puberty had not yet defined the boy, so that it would have been ridiculously easy to disguise one as the other if only the frizzy hair both sprouted might be lengthened or cropped; for the same blue eyes, in each case prominent and dispassionate, the same girlish mouth parted into an illusion of smile by the same large teeth, shouted their relationship.
        "I'll get her," he said. Doom smirked like Scaler Wayne. A nervous tic. Perceptive Mrs Brewster, with nothing further to add, rushed between rain streamers, a fanatical disciplinarian, while George, biting his plump lip, sidled past her Torquemada eye and trailed wetly to his room down the hall.
        Faith without good works is dead, said Grandpa Brewster's departed voice in thick felt tones above the redly varnished furniture, and nudged a whole chorus of echoing texts into utterance while George stripped off his shirt. He delighted in watching himself in the mirror, practising a variety of smiles and sincere looks he kept for certain teachers. Now he used the "no homework done but it was certainly not my fault, sir" gaze of unwavering gravity, genuineness leaping out from the eyes like two trained boxers. If the words did not convince at once, he made certain that his eyes felled his questioner at one truthful glance. There was another pimple starting near his nose. He attended to it absent-mindedly, observing rather his mouth as he practised the "Oh sir that was a boomer" smile he reserved for the abstruse witticisms of the Latin master.  ("Must  you do Latin, Brewster?") He would need that, he reflected, pretty often before the next summer term collapsed in a chaos of prose and scansion and unseen translation. Making his eyes sparkle more, he did it again. They simply shone with youthful alertness and appreciation. He was ravished by his own boyish enthusiasm. "Oh, sir," he breathed aloud, "oh, sir," admiringly, "that  was  a boomer!" Faith and good works, but especially faith, he signalled back to Grandpa Brewster. I have enormous faith.
        To test him, the back door slammed on his thoughts and he heard, with a stopping of the heart, his mother propel Susan into a silence of accusing aunts and mothers, of rain-witnesses, of discovered unlawful property, of very innocence that shouted vehemently from his pale round fourteen-year-old face with its frightened eyes. These rolled  at the horror of it. He pulled on a clean shirt, brushed his hair and prayed briefly.
